This video is brought to you by dragon city.
What's up wisecrack Michael here.
What's the deal with comedians delivering the news.
Are they comedians or reporters pick a lane in all seriousness,
if you've consumed any of the horrible news lately, there's a good chance.
At least some of it came from comedians like Trevor Noah, John Oliver,
Samantha bee, or his son,
the notch with a host promising to make their comedy more informative and
politically engaged.
It seems like they're intentionally pitching themselves as an alternative to
cable news and all Trevor Noah and Samantha B might be more entertaining than
Chris Wallace, original Maddow. We can't help,
but wonder is comedy news a brilliant symbiosis of the comedic and the
political,
or is it just a kind of mental junk food that occasionally makes us snicker?
I came off to him again tonight. I bet when he got in his car,
she just popped up in the backseat like, Oh, and another thing.
Let's find out in this wisecrack edition comedy news,
deep or dumb before we get into it, I want to give a shout out to dragon city,
a mobile RPG available on iOS and Android. Dragon city is like a hero collector,
but instead of heroes, you collect dragons,
generate gold to buy food and level up your dragons for battle.
There are hundreds of dragons hidden in dragon city for you to collect.
I recently found the binge dragon, the movement addict dragon,
and this serial killer dragon. You want to collect as many dragons as you can,
but it's also possible to breed different dragon species to complete your
collection here. I bred my binge dragon with the movie fanatic dragon,
and they had the neon dragon collect as many dragons as you can and use them to
battle download the game for free using the link in the description.
Now back to the show, first,
a bit of history on comedy news shows much like the career of John Oliver.
Modern comedy news was born in England before finding success in America.
The germinal versions of the comedy news format can be seen in the work of
frequent collaborators, Armando Iannucci and Chris Morris,
two British political satirists who collectively were behind shows like Veep and
the thick of it, as well as movies like four lines and the day shall come.
Their first TV show,
the day-to-day aired in 1994 and offered a satirical take on British news while
it brought up current events.
The show had no intention of being informative and instead focused on the
absurdity of news media.
Morris's next show brass was an even more intense [inaudible] of the sensational
tone of current affair shows.
There's your 26,000 pounds, but I'm watching you from a balloon.
And I can see a very long way. I go along with that.
That's most infamous episodes was the P to get in special,
which explored the moral panic and hysteria around pedophiles and the
sexualization of children.
Media just North is released tomorrow.
Can we be sure that pervert mechanics haven't built him one of these,
of course we can't the episode. Yeah.
Immediately led to over 3000 complaints and criticism from government officials
while the work of, again, Eugene Morris,
a novel standard for using the news format to create comedy magic,
their aim was satirizing society and the media not providing actual news or
information. This was the basic ethos of even the original daily show,
hosted Craig Kilborn,
which focused on covering oddball stories and offered comedic takes on historic
events.
Getting everyone together, getting everything to work out
and laughter turns to tears.
It also included lots of field pieces, which according to former anchor,
Steve Carell were a little too mean in hindsight,
but no one was watching the first iteration of the daily show in hopes of
getting their daily dose of news.
This all changed when Jon Stewart took over the show in 1999 under stewards
reign, the show became significantly more news driven.
This shift was put into sharp focus by their coverage of the 2000 election and
politics after nine 11, by 2009,
a time magazine poll showed that steward had become the most trusted news anchor
on the air steward even effectively shamed real news show CNN crossfire out of
existence by appearing as a guest and roasting its host for their sensationalism
and partisan hackery.
You're partisan. Um, what do you call it? Hacks.
Stuart.
The daily show was so influential that basically every single comedy news show
right now is hosted by its alumni, including John Oliver, Samantha bee Hassan,
Minhaj, and Wyatt snack.
And then there's Steven Colbert who used his daily show spinoff as a stepping
stone to eventually become the host of CBS is the late show history aside,
is this modern format deep or dumb?
Does this injection of comedy make for an even better method of asking questions
and informing the audience to figure that out,
we're going to get some help from comedy theorist,
Todd McGowan and his book only a joke can save us from a gallon.
Comedy happens when we were surprised by a moment where lack and excess meat put
simply a moment where something that seems insignificant is treated with
excessive importance or a moment where something very significant is treated
with the lacking indifference.
And sometimes these moments not only make us laugh,
they help us to rethink the world around us.
But let's start with the meeting of excess and lack while this sounds a little
heady McGowan uses the example of the black Knight in Monty Python's Holy grail
in which the Knight loses all four limbs in a sword fight,
but refuses to give up claiming that each subsequent severed Lin is just a flesh
wound.
The lack in this example is quite literally the black Knight's missing limps.
The excess is the absurd confidence. He continues to exhibit as he dies.
It's the bringing together of two disparate elements,
brutal violence and reckless confidence that creates this comedic moment.
It's the same reason that it's funny when Michael Scott Burns his foot on a
George Foreman grill in the office, which is a dumb household injury,
and then insist on sneaking his foot inside of an x-ray machine if he had the
same injury, but treated it like it,
wasn't a big deal that wouldn't be comedic if he had a serious injury and
treated it seriously. Also not funny,
but a non serious injury treated with absurd seriousness.
Does the trick while using a philosophical formula to evaluate comedy,
seems about as fun as bringing a dietician with you to taco bell.
It can help us see what the funniest comedy news shows have in common and make
sense of when jokes fall flat. So let's look at the origin,
the modern comedy news wave in America, the original daily show,
many of the earliest segments on the show involve correspondence like Steven
cold bear and Steve Carell going out and interviewing small town politicians or
odd oddballs with the journalistic intensity of reporting on war crimes.
But most modern comedy news has shifted away from field reporting and absurd as
characters towards talking head style monologues. For example,
in this recent segment from full frontal, with Samantha B,
she talks about the very serious issue of reopening America in light of the
COVID-19 pandemic. And while there are some genuinely funny zingers.
Trump called on people to liberate Minnesota, Michigan, and Virginia, Hey,
the Franklin mint chest sets from this new civil war. God be ugly.
Mostly talks about the dire seriousness of the situation.
So we have an excessive response to an excessive situation.
One might themselves not along and agree with be in the segment,
but you're probably not unexpectedly chuckling.
And sure not everything needs to be funny or funny as McGowan defines it,
but there is another kind of pitfall to this style of comedy news.
It lacks what McGowan argues makes comedy politically potent in the first place,
which helps get us into the relationship between comedy and political news.
The gallon thinks that there is an inherent connection between comedy and
politics.
Writing comedy has the potential to act as a site for radical emancipatory
politics,
but it can just as easily function in the most ideological fashion in the guise
of radicality. In other words,
comedy can be a magic pill that helps open our eyes to what's really going on,
or it can simply reaffirm the status quo.
It can help us see contradictions in our world or pass a bias into Contently
chuckling about nobody taking away grandma's keys.
Jokes can make us question our world and ourselves or jokes can just affirm what
we already know.
And that's why when Trevor Noah talks about the impeachment trial and the daily
show, there aren't any truly surprising comedic moments.
As it's assumed that most of the audience already agrees with the particular
point of view being expressed, the jokes aren't pointing out,
any instances of lack or contradictions either in Noah, himself,
or with the audience instead, all lack and critique is on one side, of course,
this isn't universally true for Noah or any of these shows later in the same
segment correspondent Michael Costa does some reporting from the field,
which places, some critical lack on the side of the Democrats,
joyously celebrating Trump's impeachment,
but it's more or less a softball criticism.
It's downright depressing. Yeah. Nancy today sucked.
How many like this usually doesn't challenge preconceptions.
It's simply affirms that this is why I'm a gallon writes that comedy has the
ability to deprive us of our safety net.
And this is why recognizing what's at stake in comedy has the status of an
ethical imperative.
Comedy is related to ethics because it can distance us from our comfortable
worldview and challenge us to notice the contradictions and our own ideals.
We can see a comedy news show that functions like this and the work of yet
another daily show alone Hassan Minhaj, and his show Patriot act.
Unlike the nightly news format used by the daily show and full frontal Patriot
act uses the format of an investigative journalism show to deep dive into a
specific topic with each episode.
And the nausea's particular often achieves what McGalin calls egalitarian
comedy,
which is when both the source of the comedy and its target appear divided
internally.
It is the emergence of this internal division that enables us to laugh while
also facilitating critique. For example, in the episode about Amazon Minaj,
doesn't just talk about how Amazon is ethically dubious while we not along in
the knowledge that we also have the correct opinion. Instead,
the episode points out that we are complicit in some of the things that are bad
about this company by participating in it.
So the source of the comedy Vonage and the target,
Amazon both juxtaposes the excessive wealth of Amazon and the lack of ethical
treatment of its employees and our own excessive knowledge of these wrongdoings
with our own lack of commitment, to doing anything.
Unlike Facebook and Google who need your customer data to sell ads to
businesses, Amazon is a one-stop shop. They know who you are,
what you buy and we'll sell it directly to you. Despite knowing all of this,
I'm not going to lie. I'm still going to use Amazon.
It's an essential utility for me.
So for comedy news, to work as a source of news and information,
it has to be capable of evaluating all sides of an issue or a story.
Even if that means making visible,
the contradictions shared by the host and audience.
This is why comedy news shows often work best when they swing both ways,
which isn't to say that these shows are sexually open,
but rather that they use comedy to critically consider both ends of the
political spectrum. Even if doing so challenges, the audiences assumptions.
This was a particular strength of Stuart's tenure on the daily show while
Stewart was firmly situated on the left,
he had no qualms about roasting his own camp. Without that ethos,
we end up in the danger zone of clapper,
where rather than responding to jokes with laughter,
we clap along to affirm that we also agree with the right ideas when a comedy
news show veers too far into clapper, we end up with what McGowan calls,
conservative comedy, which doesn't refer to conservative political parties,
but rather to comedy that aims to affirm ideologies rather than challenge them.
We can see this in the previously mentioned full frontal segment where Samantha
B affirms one point of view that implies the exclusion of another,
this style of comedy news locates,
all of the lack or ridicule on a particular external group or authority and
locates, the excess of goodness on the side of its host and audience,
it might criticize authority, but it leaves the viewer and host unscathed.
And of course this criticism goes beyond laughter, but cosmic,
Alan thinks that comedy has an inherently philosophical structure.
Any news source aiming to really seek out the truth would have to operate with
the same commitment to locating a lack in the social order.
And most studies and surveys have long shown that many young people consider
comedy new shows as their primary news source.
Other studies have shown that these people might have good reason to do this.
Researchers at the university of Delaware actually found that regular viewers of
satirical news were better informed than regular viewers of cable news.
And it's not too surprising that the most informed of these viewers were those
regularly watching last week tonight with John Oliver,
the show has become known for wide ranging critiques of powerful people and
institutions and its ability to inspire social changes led to multiple news
sources. Writing about the John Oliver effect.
This effect has led to massive campaigns against the tobacco industry
televangelists and the coal mining industry.
So it seems like at its best comedy news is capable of the type of humorous
reporting that can lead to social change by criticizing both those in power and
its audience, but at its worst,
it offers the sort of ingroup logic that creates more thoughtful nods than it
does gut busting laps while some like the daily show with Trevor Noah and
full-frontal might lean towards the latter category shows like last week tonight
and Patriot act have veered towards the former.
This all leads us back to our initial question, is comedy news deep or dump?
It seems there rather than falling simply on one side of this dichotomy,
that comedy news is both deep and I'm sorry,
it's deep when it challenges our preconceived notions and dumb when it leads to
self satisfied clapper and each show probably has genuine moments of both.
But what do you think wisecrack is comedy news,
a valuable source of both lasts and information?
Or is it just a low stakes way to relax by chuckling at the news?
Let us know what you think in the comments. And before you go,
I want to give one last shout out to dragon city.
Once you have a collection of dragons,
you can take them to battle and collect gold and exp use food to level your
dragons. And after some training, they should be ready to win some battles.
The game offers different PVP modes,
where you can take your favorite dragons and fight in the leagues or in the
arena. There are new events every week,
like match three puzzles and mazes start growing your dragon collection and go
to battle today,
hit the link in the description to download the game for free and as always,
thanks for watching guys.
[Inaudible].